## Aloware Homepage Automated Tests
This project contains end-to-end automated tests for the Aloware Homepage, using Cypress, a test automation framework for modern web applications.

## Prerequisites
[Node.js]: Ensure you have *Node.js* installed. You can check by running *node -v* in your terminal.
[Cypress]: Install Cypress using *npm install -D cypress*.
[Browsers]: Cypress already includes Electron by default. If you need to test on other browsers, such as Chrome or Firefox, install them separately.
[GitHub_Account]: You'll need a GitHub account to utilize the GitHub Actions workflow.

## Project Structure
[cypress/e2e] Contains the Cypress test files (e.g., aloware.cy.js).
[cypress/fixtures] Contains test data files (e.g., menus_and_submenus.json).
[cypress/reports] Contains the htlm and junit reports generated by Mochawesome.
[cypress/screenshots] Contains the screenshots of the test cases.
[.github/workflows/main.yml] Defines the GitHub Actions workflow configuration.

## Installation
1. Clone this repository:
    git clone <https://github.com/joseiltoncorreia/aloware-tests.git>

2. Navigate to the project directory:
    cd hometaskjs

3. Install dependencies:
    npm install

## Running Tests
[Locally]: Run *npx cypress open* in your terminal. This will open the Cypress Test Runner, where you can select and run your tests.

[GitHub_Actions]:  The workflow defined in *.github/workflows/cypress.yml* will trigger automated test runs on each push to the repository. The workflow sets up the environment, installs dependencies, and runs the tests in the Chrome browser.

## Test Cases
 - [Scenario_6:_Verify_navigation_bar]: Verifies if all menus are visible on the homepage.
 - [Scenario_5:_Verify_all_call_to_action_buttons]: Verifies if all *call to action buttons* are visible, clickable, and redirect to the correct page.
 - [Scenario_8:_Verify_submenu_opens_on_hover_over_menu_item]: Verifies if all Submenus redirect the user to the correct page.
 - Note: Due to time limitation, only a few call-to-action buttons, some menus, and submenus were validated, but more tests can be added by appending the appropriate lines to the JSON files within the cypress/fixture folder.

## Reporting
[Cypress_Reports]: Cypress generates detailed HTML reports with information about passed and failed tests, including screenshots and console logs. These reports are saved in the *cypress/reports* folder.
[GitHub_Actions]: The workflow publishes test results in JUnit format to the GitHub Actions interface.